## System Monitoring
- top, df, dmesg, iostat 1, free, history
- cat /proc/cpuinfo, cat /proc/meminfo

### Disk space(df, du)
df: displays the amount of disk space available on the file system containing each file name argument.  If no file  name  is  given,  the space  available  on  all  currently mounted file systems is shown. 

- "df -h" = human readable

du: disk usage of each File, recursively for directories

### Display kernel message (dmesg)
dmesg: print or control the kernel ring buffer (a data structure that records messages related to the operation of the kernel)

Shows messages for during booting and after booting.

### Input Output stats
iostat: monitors system input/output device
- iostat -c/-d : only CPU Util or Device Util
- iostat [number] : keep refreshing every number of seconds

Types:
1. CPU Utilization report, for multiprocessor systems
2. Device Utilization report

### Physical and Virtual memory(free)
free: display amount of free and used memory in the system
              total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
Mem:         988684      120632      538700         572      329352      687916
Swap:             0           0           0

- Swap is virtual memory

### Reading proc CPU/MEM info file
proc is very special in that it is also a virtual filesystem. It's sometimes referred to as a process information pseudo-file system. It doesn't contain 'real' files but runtime system information (e.g. system memory, devices mounted, hardware configuration, etc). For this reason it can be regarded as a control and information centre for the kernel. In fact, quite a lot of system utilities are simply calls to files in this directory. For example, 'lsmod' is the same as 'cat /proc/modules' while 'lspci' is a synonym for 'cat /proc/pci'. By altering files located in this directory you can even read/change kernel parameters (sysctl) while the system is running.

- cat /proc/cpuinfo
- cat /proc/meminfo

### Shell history (history)
history: Shows a recent executed list of commands.
- File location: /home/name/.bash_history