## File System Structure
/boot (files for boot loader/ grub.cfg) 
/root (root user home dir, not the same as "/")
/home (regular user home dir)
/dev  (System devices, ie. disk, cd rom, speaker, flash drive, keyboard ... ie. aws EBS is in /dev/xvdf)
/etc  (config files)
/opt  (3rd party apps, not part of OS apps)
/tmp  (Temporary files)
/proc (Running processes, only exist in Memory, empty once shutdown)
/var  (System logs, for trouble shooting)
/run  (System daemons that start very early, systemd and udev to store temp     runtime files like PID files)
/mnt  (To mount external filesystem, ie. NFS)
/media(For cd rom mounts) 

/usr/bin  (Everyday user commands)
/usr/sbin (System/filesystem commands)
/usr/lib  (C programming library files needed by commands and apps)

## Directory Listing Attributes (ls)
OUTPUTS from ls -la

Type       | # of links | Owner | Group | Size | Date | Name
dr-xr-xr-x | 19         | root  | root  | 3029 | Feb 4| var
*a link is a connection between a file name and the actual data on the disk

## File types (7) 
"-" regular 
"d" Directory 
"l" Link 
"c" Special/device 
"s" Socket  
"p" pipe(named pipe) 
"b" Block device 

## Navigation
cd, pwd, ls (-la list all, -tr time mod reversed)

## Creating files
touch, cp, vi

### Bulk create/remove
<touch "filename"{1..9}> <= * 2 dots
<rm "filename with wildcard">

ie. touch nick{1..9}.md 
ie. rm nick* 

## Copying and creating a Dir
cp -R <src-folder> <dest-folder>
mkdir

## Removing a Dir
rmdir <dir-name>

This command will remove the dir and sub-dir within it:
rm -Rf <dir-name>

## What is Root ?
3 types of root in Linux OS
1. Root account: most powerful
2. Root as "/": root dir in Linux
3. Root home dir: the home dir belonging to root account, located in "/root"

## FS Paths
Absolute: cd /var/log/samba
Relative: cd /var => cd log => cd samba


## Finding files and directories
locate(prebuilt db) is much faster than find(iterate) but can be inaccurate.

<find "directory to look" -name "filename">

ie. <find / -name "ifcfg-eth0"> 
find the config file for the main ethernet
OUTPUT: 
/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0

<locate "filename">
run <updatedb> to refresh the prebuilt db for locate 

## Widecards
- "*": Anything goes
- "?": Unsure about a char in the search query
- "[]": Match a range that contains inside the bracket

ie. match "nick-is-the-best{1..9}.md" 
<ls -l ?ick*>
<ls -l *[nick]*>

## inode
DS that stores various information about a file in Linux, such as the access mode (read, write, execute permissions), ownership, file type, file size, group, number of links, etc. 

Each inode is identified by an integer number. An inode is assigned to a file when it is created.

## Soft Links
Soft Link will not work anymore if the source file is removed or renamed

<ln -s>

## Hard Links
Deleting renaming or moving the original file will not affect the hard link
Hard links only works with the same partition
Hard link is like running a cp command to another destination after ever file change.
<ln>

ie: hard-link => inode <= myfile.txt <= soft-link

<ls -li> shows the inode number

## Commands for viewing a file
cat, less, more, head, tail
less is more, less is like more but has more features

head: output first 10 lines
tail: output last 10 lines

## Compare files
diff (Line by Line)
cmp(Byte by byte)

## Compressing and decompression files
tar: tape archive, bundle files together
- tar cvf <newFilename> <location> => c: create tar, v: output cli, f: name file 
- tar xvf <filename> <location> => x:un-tar this file

gzip: file compression
- gzip <filename> = compression
- gzip -d / gunzip <filename> = decompression

## Truncate File Size (truncate)
truncate: chop the file and shrink it down to a size, losing some data, or adding random @ to increase file byte size.
- truncate -s <byte> <filename>

## Combine and splitting files
cat: output or combine files 
- cat file1, file2, file3 > file

split: fixed-size pieces of INPUT to XXXaa, XXXab, XXXac
- split -l 20 <filename> <newFilename> => split file by line