## Computer Storage
- Local Storage: RAM, HDD, SSD, etc.
- DAS(Direct Attached Storage): CD/DVD, flash drive, external disk(USB)
- SAN(Storage Area Network): Storage attached through iSCSI or fiber cable, ie. storage attached to the motherboard
- NAS (Network Attached Storage): Storage attached over network (TCP/IP), ie. samba, NFS, EFS etc.

## Disk Partition (df, fdisk, du)
df: displays the amount of disk space available on the file system containing each file name argument.  If no file  name  is  given,  the space  available  on  all  currently mounted file systems is shown. 
```
df -h = human readable
outputs:
/dev/xvda1       8376300 2573360   5802940  31% /
```

fdisk: dialog-driven program for creation and manipulation of partition tables.
```
fdisk -l = list partition tables

outputs: 
Disk /dev/xvda: 8 GiB, 8589934592 bytes, 16777216 sectors

```

du: disk usage of each File, recursively for directories

## mounting an new EBS volume after attachment
<!-- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ebs-using-volumes.html -->
After you attach an Amazon EBS volume to your instance, it is exposed as a block device. You can format the volume with any file system and then mount it. After you make the EBS volume available for use, you can access it in the same ways that you access any other volume. Any data written to this file system is written to the EBS volume and is transparent to applications using the device.

Steps: 
1. Format and mount an attached volume
   1. lsblk =  lists info about all available or the specified block devices.
   2. sudo mkfs -t xfs /dev/xvdf
   3. sudo mkdir /data
   4. sudo mount /dev/xvdf /data
2. Automatically mount an attached volume after reboot
   1. sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.orig
   2. sudo blkid = get UUID
   3. sudo vim /etc/fstab
   4. UUID=aebf131c-6957-451e-8d34-ec978d9581ae  /data  xfs  defaults,nofail  0 2

## SATA and SAS 
- SATA: Serial ATA or Serial Advanced Technology Attachment.
- SAS: Serial Attached SCSI

Advantages:
- SATA: Inexpensive, large storage capacity.
- SAS: Fast data transfer rate, reliability at higher cost

Example:
- SATA: LA => San Fran
- SAS: LA => San Fran or LA => Las Vegas

Uses:
- SATA: Personal computing, storage
- SAS: Enterprise, servers

## RAID 
Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID)
Types of RAID configs:
- RAID0: 5 + 5 = 10G, if one of the 5G die, you lose data
- RAID1: 5 + 5 = 5G, Slow because of data replication
- RAID5: 5 + 5 + 5 = 12G, distributed parity