## Virtualization and Xen
Terms:
1. Hypervisor = Host / Virtual Server software

EC2 uses Xen as a virtualization service:
Xen is a type-1 hypervisor, providing services that allow multiple computer operating systems to execute on the same computer hardware concurrently.

## Containerization (docker)
<!-- https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/rhel/ -->
Docker is a set of platform as a service products that use OS-level virtualization to deliver software in packages called containers. The service has both free and premium tiers. The software that hosts the containers is called Docker Engine. It was first started in 2013 and is developed by Docker, Inc.

<!-- https://medium.com/appgambit/part-1-running-docker-on-aws-ec2-cbcf0ec7c3f8 -->
This is a multi-part series, wherein I will show various AWS Compute services like EC2, ECS, Fargate, and EKS to run Docker containers. We will use a number of other AWS services like CodeCommit, CodeBuild, CodePipeline along the way.

<!-- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/docker-basics.html -->
Docker is a technology that provides the tools for you to build, run, test, and deploy distributed applications that are based on Linux containers. Amazon ECS uses Docker images in task definitions to launch containers as part of tasks in your clusters.

AWS and Docker have collaborated to make a simplified developer experience that enables you to deploy and manage containers on Amazon ECS directly using Docker tools. You can now build and test your containers locally using Docker Desktop and Docker Compose, and then deploy them to Amazon ECS on Fargate. To get started with the Amazon ECS and Docker integration, download Docker Desktop and optionally sign up for a Docker ID. For more information, see Docker Desktop and Docker ID signup.