## Network Interface Card
UseCase: Fail-over a public EIP. Have an instance on standby monitor keepalives and steal the interface if a primary goes down.

ifconfig to find out how many NICs are active
ethtool <NIC id>: query or control network driver and hardware settings

ie. in AWS EC2 Amazon Linux 2 AMI, eth0 is the first Ethernet interface. (Additional Ethernet interfaces would be named eth1, eth2, etc.)

lo is the loopback interface. This is a special network interface that the system uses to communicate with itself. 

## NIC Bonding
AKA network bonding, or aggregation or combination of multiple NIC into a single bond interface.

Provides HA and redundancy

**You cannot attach another network interface to an instance (for example, a NIC teaming configuration) to increase or double the network bandwidth to or from the dual-homed instance.

For high network performance:
The available network bandwidth of an instance depends on the number of vCPUs that it has. For example, an m5.8xlarge instance has 32 vCPUs and 10 Gbps network bandwidth, and an m5.16xlarge instance has 64 vCPUs and 20 Gbps network bandwidth. 

Elastic Fabric Adapter(EFA)
- scalability, flexibility, and elasticity to tightly-coupled HPC apps. 
- Lower and more consistent latency and higher throughput than traditional TCP channels = scalability. 
- EFA support can be enabled dynamically, on-demand on any supported EC2 instance without pre-reservation = flexibility.

<!-- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/enhanced-networking.html -->
For Enhanced networking on Linux:
Enhanced networking uses single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) to provide high-performance networking capabilities on supported instance types. 
- Elastic Network Adapter (ENA): supports network speeds of up to 100 Gbps for supported instance types.
- Intel 82599 Virtual Function (VF) interface

[Procedure](https://bit.ly/NIC-BONDING)
1. Create /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-bond#
2. Enter appropriate params
3. Edit the 1st and snd NIC config files
4. system restart