## Network Utilities
- ip/ifconfig:	Display and manipulate route and ENIs.
- ifup, ifdown: Turning on/off a ENI
- traceroute:	  Root Network troubleshooting utility.
- tracepath:    Non-root Network troubleshooting utility
- ping:	        Check connectivity between two nodes.
- ss/netstat:	  Display connection information.
- dig/nslooup:	Query DNS related information.
- route:      	Shows and manipulate IP routing table.
- host:	        Performs DNS lookups.
- arp:	        View or add contents of the kernel's ARP table.
- iwconfig:	    Used to configure wireless network interface.
- hostname:	    Identify network host name.
- curl/wget:	  Download a file from internet.
- mtr:        	Combines ping and tracepath into a single command.

### Display connection information(netstat)
netstat: Print network connections, routing tables, interface stats ...
```
netstat -r: shows route table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
default         ip-172-31-16-1. 0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 eth0
...
```
### Packet Analysis (tcpdump)
tcpdump: prints out a description of the contents of packets on a network interface that match the boolean expression. With time stamp
```
tcpdump -i(specify interface) eth0(primary ENI)
tcpdump -i eth0
```
### Reachability Test (ping)
ping: ping uses the ICMP request datagram to elicit an ICMP response from  a  host or gateway.
- ping www.google.com

### Trace Traffic (traceroute)
traceroute: 
- Display possible routes (paths) 
- measure transit delays of packets across an IP network. 
- Routing history is recorded as the round-trip times of the packets received from each successive host (remote node) in the route (path); the sum of the mean times in each hop is a measure of the total time spent to establish the connection.
- Ping, on the other hand, only computes the final round-trip times from the destination point.

```
traceroute www.google.com

 1  216.182.226.100 (216.182.226.100)  13.254 ms 216.182.229.88 (216.182.229.88)  8.408 ms ec2-3-236-61-157.compute-1.amazonaws.com (3.236.61.157)  5.476 ms
 
 2  243.254.16.206 (243.254.16.206)  5.426 ms 100.66.36.248 (100.66.36.248)  5.439 ms 100.66.12.242 (100.66.12.242)  426.898 ms

 3 ...
```

Use cases:
1. Identify incorrect routing table definitions
2. firewalls that may be blocking ICMP traffic
3. High port UDP in Unix ping, to a site. 

### Downloading files Or Apps(wget)
wget: non-interactive download of files from the Web.
- wget http://website.com/filename

### Client URL (curl)
curl(client URL):  tool for transferring data from or to a server, like GOPHER, HTTP/S, RTMP, SMTP, 
- curl www.google.com = gets the html from google
- curl -O www.site.com/image.jpg = downloads the image 
